Tutorial: How to set up Go feature flags (#6829)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/tutorials/go-feature-flags.md

---

> title: How to set up Golang feature flags

Reviewer: I think slightly more grammatically correct
```suggestion
title: How to set up feature flags in Go
```

date: 2023-09-26
author: ["ian-vanagas"]
showTitle: true
sidebar: Docs
featuredImage: ../images/tutorials/banners/tutorial-8.png
tags: ["feature-flags"]
---

> Feature flags are a critical part of delivering code safely. This tutorial shows you how to use them in Go (Golang). We create a basic HTTP server, add PostHog, create a feature flag, and implement it in our app to change the response content.

Reviewer: Im 50/50 on whether to include the hyperlink or not
```suggestion
[Feature flags](/docs/feature-flags) are a critical part of delivering code safely. This tutorial shows you how to use them in Go (Golang). We'll create a basic HTTP server, add PostHog, create a feature flag, and implement it in our app to change the response content.
```

## Creating a Go HTTP server

Once you have [Go installed](https://go.dev/doc/install) and set up, create a folder and a `main.go` file for our app.

```bash
mkdir go-flags
cd go-flags
touch main.go
```

In our newly created `main.go` file, import `fmt` and `net/http`. We use them to run an HTTP server that returns a "Hello World!" string on `localhost:8080`.

```go
// main.go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"net/http"
)

func main() {
	http.HandleFunc("/", func(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
		fmt.Fprintf(w, "Hello World!")
	})

	http.ListenAndServe(":8080", nil)
}
```

Once created, run `go run main.go` and go to `localhost:8080` to see the response.

![Hello World!](../images/tutorials/go-feature-flags/hello.png)

### Setting up user IDs

To evaluate flags consistently, we need a consistent user ID across requests. Because we are making web requests, we can use cookies to store this value. In our HTTP handler, we can set up logic to check for a `user_id` in cookies using the `http` package’s `Cookie` function. If it exists, we set it as a `userID` variable. If it doesn’t, we generate an ID using a UUID generator.

> To start with this, install Google’s UUID generator.

Reviewer: add hyperlink to the github repo

```bash
go get github.com/google/uuid
```

> Next in the `http.HandleFunc` function, write the logic to set a `userID` variable by either getting the `user_id` cookie or creating one using the UUID package we just installed. Our handler function now looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, in the `http.HandleFunc` function, write the logic to set a `userID` variable by either getting the `user_id` cookie or creating one using the UUID package we just installed. Our handler function now looks like this:
```

```go
// main.go
http.HandleFunc("/", func(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
	// Check for user_id value from cookies
	cookie, err := r.Cookie("user_id")
	var userID string

	if err != nil || cookie.Value == "" {
		// Create a new user_id using a UUID function
		userID = uuid.New().String()
		// Set the user_id cookie
		http.SetCookie(w, &http.Cookie{
			Name:  "user_id",
			Value: userID,
		})
	} else {
		// Use the existing user_id
		userID = cookie.Value
	}

	fmt.Fprintf(w, "Hello World!")
})
```

We use this `userID` value later to capture PostHog events and evaluate feature flags.

## Adding PostHog

> Next, we add PostHog. First, install it:

Reviewer: I think a sentence on why we're adding posthog is needed e.g.
```suggestion
Next, we add PostHog. PostHog will handle our feature flags etc.

To install it, run the following command:
```
